# AMD GPU Driver (amdgpu) 30.10.2 release notes

The release notes provide release highlights and known issues since the previous AMD GPU Driver release (30.10.1).

## Release highlights

The following are notable new features and improvements in AMD GPU Driver 30.10.2.

### Operating system and hardware support changes

The AMD GPU Driver 30.10.2 introduces support for the following operating systems:

* Debian 13 (kernel: 6.12)
* Oracle Linux 10 (kernel: 6.12.0 [UEK])
* RHEL 10.0 (kernel: 6.12.0-55)

For the compatibility between AMD GPU Driver, ROCm, GPUs, and OS, see the [Compatibility matrix](../../compatibility/compatibility-matrix.rst).

### GPU resiliency

Multimedia Engine Reset is now supported in AMD GPU Driver (amdgpu) 30.10.2 for AMD Instinct MI300X GPUs. This finer-grain GPU resiliency feature allows recovery from faults related to VCN or JPEG without requiring a full GPU reset, thereby improving system stability and fault tolerance. Note that VCN queue reset functionality requires PLDM bundle 01.25.05.00 (or later) firmware.

### PCIe error recovery

Downstream Port Containment (DPC) and Advanced Error Reporting (AER) are PCIe mechanisms that work together to detect and recover from hardware errors. Enabling DPC for AER allows the system to isolate faulty PCIe devices and recover gracefully without crashing. This feature is supported on the AMD Instinct MI300X, MI300A, and MI325X GPUs.

## Known issues

ROCm 7.0.2 and AMD GPU Driver (amdgpu) 30.10.2 have known multimedia issue with AMD Instinct MI300A GPUs when paired with BKC 26. As a result, subsequent multimedia jobs might become unstable after the multimedia engine reset is reset to recover a VCN related fault. As a workaround, continue using BKC 25 or older firmware until it is fixed in an upcoming release.

## AMD GPU Driver (amdgpu) 30.10.1 release notes

AMD GPU Driver (amdgpu) 30.10.1 is a quality release that resolves the issue listed in the Release highlights.

### Release highlights

The following issue has been resolved in the AMD GPU Driver (amdgpu) 30.10.1 to be used with ROCm 7.0.1.

#### Failure to declare out-of-bound CPERs for bad memory page

The issue of failing to declare Out-Of-Band Common Platform Error Records (CPERs) when exceeding bad memory page threshold has been resolved. The fix applies to all AMD Instinct MI300 Series and MI350 Series GPUs.

```{note}
AMD GPU Driver (amdgpu) 30.10.1 doesn't include any other significant changes or feature additions. For comprehensive changes in the previous release, refer to the [AMD GPU Driver (amdgpu) 30.10 release notes](#amd-gpu-driver-amdgpu-30-10-release-notes) below.
```

## AMD GPU Driver (amdgpu) 30.10 release notes

The release notes provide a summary of notable changes since the previous AMD GPU Driver release.

### Release highlights

The following are notable new features and improvements in AMD GPU Driver 30.10.

#### Operating system and hardware support changes

The AMD GPU Driver 30.10 adds support for [AMD Instinct
MI355X](https://www.amd.com/en/products/accelerators/instinct/mi350/mi355x.html) and
[MI350X](https://www.amd.com/en/products/accelerators/instinct/mi350/mi350x.html) accelerators.

AMD GPU Driver 30.10 also introduces support for the following operating systems:

* Rocky 9

* Ubuntu 24.04.3

AMD GPU Driver 30.10 marks end-of-support (EOS) for Ubuntu 24.04.2. For the compatibility between
AMD GPU Driver, ROCm, GPUs, and OS, see the [Compatibility matrix](../../compatibility/compatibility-matrix.rst).

#### Partitioning

The AMD GPU Driver 30.10 adds the following memory and compute partitioning support:

* **NPS1 + SPX partitioning for AMD Instinct MI355X and MI350X**: This memory partitioning mode exposes the
  entire memory to all compute dies (XCDs), allowing full access across the GPU. In SPX (Single
  Partition Compute Mode), workgroups are distributed round-robin across all XCDs. There’s no explicit
  control over which XCD executes a given kernel, making it simple and general-purpose. This feature
  requires PLDM bundle (firmware) 01.25.13.04.

* **NPS2 + DPX partitioning for AMD Instinct MI355X and MI350X**: NPS2 splits the GPU’s memory into two NUMA
  domains. Dual Partition Compute Mode (DPX) divides the GPU’s compute resources into two partitions,
  each with 4 XCDs (out of 8 total), 8 DMA engines, and 2 VCN decoder groups. This feature requires
  PLDM bundle (firmware) 01.25.13.04.

#### GPU resiliency

The following GPU resiliency feature is supported in the AMD GPU Driver 30.10 for AMD Instinct MI300X, MI350X, and MI355X:

* SDMA engine reset enables recovery from SDMA-related faults without requiring a full GPU reset,
  improving system stability and fault tolerance.

#### Program counter (PC) sampling

The AMD GPU Driver 30.10.0 adds support for Stochastic (hardware-based) and Host-trap PC sampling, a
GPU profiling technique used for analyzing kernel execution performance.

* **Stochastic PC sampling**: This method randomly triggers wave traps across compute units to
  capture program counter (PC) snapshots. This method introduces randomness in wave selection,
  enabling broader statistical coverage of kernel execution behavior. This feature is supported on the
  MI300-Series GPUs (including MI300A, MI300X, MI325X, MI350X, and MI355X).

* **Host-trap PC Sampling**: This method allows controlled, device-wide profiling. It works by
  periodically selecting active wave slots across compute units and triggering a trap handler to
  capture the program counter (PC), producing a histogram of sampled instructions. This feature is
  supported on the MI200-Series GPUs (including MI210, MI250, and MI250X) and MI300-Series GPUs
  (including MI300A, MI300X, MI325X, MI350X, and MI355X).

This feature can be accessed either through the ROCprofiler method or directly via the ROCm Runtime
vendor extension APIs, which are defined in the `hsa_ven_amd_pc_sampling.h` header as follows:

```c
hsa_status_t hsa_ven_amd_pcs_create(hsa_agent_t agent, hsa_ven_amd_pcs_method_kind_t method,
                                    hsa_ven_amd_pcs_units_t units, size_t interval, size_t latency,
                                    size_t buffer_size
                                    hsa_ven_amd_pcs_data_ready_callback_t data_ready_callback,
                                    void* client_callback_data, hsa_ven_amd_pcs_t* pc_sampling);
hsa_status_t hsa_ven_amd_pcs_destroy(hsa_ven_amd_pcs_t pc_sampling);
hsa_status_t hsa_ven_amd_pcs_start(hsa_ven_amd_pcs_t pc_sampling);
hsa_status_t hsa_ven_amd_pcs_stop(hsa_ven_amd_pcs_t pc_sampling);
hsa_status_t hsa_ven_amd_pcs_flush(hsa_ven_amd_pcs_t pc_sampling);
```

### Known issues

Exceeding bad memory page threshold fails to declare Out-Of-Band Common
Platform Error Records (CPERs). This issue affects all AMD Instinct MI350
Series and MI300 Series GPUs, and will be fixed in a future AMD GPU
Driver release.

### Resolved issues

Issue with restoring a CRIU checkpoint for workloads on AMD Instinct MI Series GPUs is resolved.
